improving children's safety while
walking and bicycling is a central
mission of safe routes to schools
walking school buses bike rodeos and
safety education help bring attention to
safety concerns around schools and in
our neighborhoods walking to school
gives students the opportunity to
connect with friends and explore their
surroundings before class the walking is
a safe activity parents and children can
experience disruptions along their route
such as cracked and broken sidewalks
making it unsafe to walk besides cracked
sidewalks there are other traffic
related issues or perceptions about
safety that can create barriers to
walking to school having a safe routes
to school program helps identify these
barriers and improve the routes to
school increase safety and create more
opportunities for families to be
physically active here are five
important walking tips walk on the
sidewalk when there's no sidewalk walk
on the left side of the street facing
traffic so that drivers can see you if
under the age of 10 students should walk
with a trusted adult or older child obey
all traffic signals and signs including
stopping at stop signs and waiting to
make sure it is safe to cross if a
crossing guard is present follow their
instructions for when it's safe for you
to cross the street look left right left
and over your shoulder for vehicles make
eye contact with drivers before stepping
off the side walked across the street
cross the street at an intersection and
crosswalk only while crossing the street
stay alert for vehicles pay attention
put away all headphones cell phones and
games while crossing the street a
walking school bus is also a fun way to
walk to school safely and enjoy exercise
in time with friends it's easy to start
a walking school bus determine from
which direction students and parents are
already walking
to school create a route to streets that
are convenient but are also safe and do
not pose any hazards to walking this
includes places with clearly marked
crosswalks recruit parents to volunteer
reach out to existing groups like the
PTA or parent Center to find parents who
are enthusiastic about taking part in
activities at your child's school and
don't forget to plan for rainy days and
expectations for students behavior and
finally start walking to school a
walking school bus and other
encouragement programs can act as a
springboard for the community to start
discussing ways to improve walking
conditions in their communities more
children walking to school means less
traffic congestion and air pollution
seeing students walk in large groups to
school supervised by an adult not only
helps to build a sense of community but
it also creates awareness among drivers
in the community that they should expect
to see children walking along these
routes for more detailed instructions on
how to set up your own walking school
bus go to the links on your screen
[Music]
you